# MLP Game Project (p5.js)

## Final Documentation ##

For our project, we were able to create a My Little Pony themed quest game called Harmony Meadows: Cutie Quest. In this game, the user is first met with the start screen, where they are able to select their own pony design out of 9 options using an HTML select element. 

Upon clicking the “Start Game” button, the player will be taken into a pony village where they may meet with 3 of the villagers by walking up to them. Each of these villagers assigns the player with a specific quest for the player to complete. Each of these quests is presented in the form of a mini-game and there is a timer implemented for each game that counts how long it takes for the user to complete the game. The objective is to receive a cutie mark after completing all the mini games. The cutie mark the player receives is decided using the combined performance of all mini-games. 

1. The first mini-game we built is an apple-picking game that is given to the player by the pony villager Applejack. The objective of the game is to pick 15 apples while having to dodge Apple Bloom, Applejack’s little sister, who runs across the screen, blocking the player’s path. For this game, the user controls a character using WASD keys, which allows the character to move around in order to collect apples and avoid the enemy. The apples spawn at random x-coordinates and slowly fall to the ground; if any apple is missed by the user and falls to the ground, it will respawn at another random x-coordinate and repeat its falling behavior. During the game, Apple Bloom from the right of the screen to the left of the screen in order to throw the player off. If she has run off the screen without hitting the user, she will respawn at a different y-location at a randomly generated speed. If the user does run into the enemy, or Apple Bloom, they will lose about 1 to 3 points, setting them back in the game and making it more challenging, however, the game logic is designed so that the user’s points will never fall below 0. Lastly, the game will have a timer where it will measure how long it takes for the user to successfully collect 15 apples, deciding the score of the game.
2. The second game we built is a memory game that is given to the player by the pony villager Twilight Sparkle. The objective of this game is to match all the cards as quickly as possible. In total, there are 12 cards and 6 pairs of sets. To play the game, the user must click on the back of any card to flip it and see the hidden image on the other side. The user must then continuously try to guess which card out of the leftover 11 cards contains the matching image. If the user picks two cards that do not match, there will be a 2 to 3 second delay where the player can look at the card image and positioning before the card flips back over again. Alternatively, if the user picks two matching cards correctly, the cards will remain flipped over to their image. Lastly, the game will also be timed to measure how long it takes for the player to successfully match all the cards.
3. For our last game, we decided to implement an animal round-up game that is given to the user by pony villager Fluttershy. In this game, the user must push a variety of animals using their mouse to the center of the screen where there is a barrel for them to go into. If the user catches the animal in the barrel, they get one point and another animal respawns somewhere random. The animals are programmed so that they actively avoid the center of the screen and run away when the user comes near them. Furthermore, they can never go past the edge of the screen and are constrained to a specific portion of the screen. The player only has 30 seconds to collect as many animals as they can, which is what decides their score.
4. The fourth game is a racing game that is given by the villager RainbowDash. The objective of the game is to dodge all the incoming clouds and collect as many rainbows as you can before you get hit three times. There are also lighting bolts that spawn in which the user can collect to “gain energy”, once the user collects 3, they reduce one of their hits by 1. For this game, the user controls Rainbow Dash by using the up arrow key, the user must repeatedly click the button to keep the pony afloat. The clouds will all spawn randomly and move using perlin noise to replicate a more realistic cloud movement. The lightning bolts and rainbows will spawn in once (only one in frame at a time) at random y-coordinates. Once the clouds, bolt, and rainbow pass the screen they will randomly spawn at another y-coordinate. This is a more strategic game as the user must decide when it is safe to collect lightning bolts (and if it is worth the risk) over collecting rainbows.
5. The fifth game we built is a baking game that is given by the villager Pinkie Pie. The objective of this game is that a random pony will come in and ask for a specific bakery treat. There will be ingredients laid out on the table, each correlating to a specific key value. The recipe for each treat is unique and there will be a recipe book displayed in the corner with the specific ingredients and the order they need to be selected. The user must press the correct keys in the correct order in order to successfully give them their pastry. If the user messes up at any time, the order will be incorrect and the customer will leave unsatisfied. If the user gets 3 unsatisfied customers, it’s game over. This game implements speed and memorization, as the user must quickly get as many orders right as possible but also be careful not to make any easy mistakes.
6. For our last game, we decided to implement a diamond collection game. The user controls rarity as she runs through caves trying to find diamonds for her design but all of the sharp crystals on the ground will get in the user’s way. The user will have to jump to avoid the crystals pressing shift while also attempting to collect the diamonds in the air. The game speeds up as you go and will slow down when you bump into a crystal. If you hit 3 crystals, it’s game over. This is a speed-based game since the character gains speed over time, challenging the user to time when it’s right to jump, making sure they avoid hitting crystals.
  
Finally, we have a new feature in our game, where the user can “talk” with all the pony villagers after they have completed that pony’s quest. Once done with the quest, when the user gets close enough to a villager a speech bubble will pop above the villager that says “press X to talk with [pony name]”. If the user is in proximity with the villager and presses X, it will take them to a different screen where the villager will offer up some words of gratitude and recommend where to go next. Each pony has their own unique dialogue and background, it offers more insight into their personality and mannerisms and helps the user feel more connected to the story. As implemented in the last game, after the user completes all these games and has all of their scores, which are all saved in local storage, they will receive a cutie mark that is based off of the scores. After they have received the cutie mark, the game ends. 
